# Introduction

SpiraTeam® is an integrated Application Lifecycle Management (ALM)
system that manages your project\'s requirements, releases, test cases,
issues and tasks in one unified environment:

SpiraTeam® contains all of the features provided by SpiraTest^®^ - our
highly acclaimed quality assurance system and SpiraPlan® - our
agile-enabled project management solution. With integrated customizable
dashboards of key project information, SpiraTeam® allows you to take
control of your entire project lifecycle and synchronize the hitherto
separate worlds of development and testing.

SpiraTeam provides all this functionality in an easily accessible,
highly usable web interface that can be used by managers, testers and
developers alike. However, we recognize that developers are already
comfortable working in their Integrated Development Environments (IDEs).
To reduce the number of different applications developers need to use,
SpiraPlan, SpiraTest and SpiraTeam can be integrated with such IDEs so
that developers can implement requirements, complete tasks and fix
incidents from within the same environment that they develop the
software code.

This guide outlines how to integrate and use SpiraTest, SpiraPlan and
SpiraTeam in conjunction with various IDEs that are commonly used in
software development. This guide assumes that the reader is familiar
with both SpiraTeam and the appropriate IDE being discussed. For
information regarding how to use SpiraTeam, please refer to the
*SpiraTeam User Manual*.

